--- PAGE 1 ---
1 
 
PROPERTY LAW 1 LAW2102 
SEMESTER 1, 2026 
ASSIGNMENT  2 – DRAFTING OFFER AND ACCEPTANCE FOR SALE OF LAND, 
TRANSFER, CAVEAT, AND LETTER OF DEMAND 
FACTUAL SCENARIO AND INSTRUCTIONS 
 
After graduating from Nevermore Academy, Wednesday Addams decides to live a more 
‘normal’ life. She decides to go and live in a very ‘normal’ suburb north of Perth, namely 
Joondalup, and buy a ‘normal’ house.  
Wednesday purchases a nice neo-gothic style house built in the 90s on a green title situated at 
9 Nightshade Street, Joondalup, Western Australia (not a real address). The asking price is 
$1,500,000.00 but she manages to negotiate the sale price down to $1,200,000.00 (with some 
help from Lurch, who drove her to the home open where negotiations took place and whose 
silent brooding presence was rather unnerving for the seller). She puts down a $120,000.00 
deposit and proposes to seek finance for the rest from It Finance Ltd. Settlement is due to 
take place 28 days after signing the offer and acceptance by all parties. 
The seller of 9 Nightshade Street is Gideon Sterling. Gideon appears as registered proprietor 
on the certificate of title for this property. There are no encumbrances on the certificate of 
title except a registered mortgage with Siren Loans Ltd as mortgagee and Gideon as 
mortgagor.  
Wednesday wants the sale to be subject to finance, a white ant certificate, and a satisfactory 
building inspection. She also wants to make sure that the ducted air conditioning on the 
premises is in working order when she takes over as she likes the room temperature to be ‘ice 
cold’ even in the middle of winter. Wednesday also wants to include some of the items in the 
house, but is unsure whether they are fixtures. These items include:  
• Some beautiful pitch-black velvet curtains in the loungeroom. 
• A gothic looking huge chandelier in the dining room. 
• A gargoyle water fountain in the back garden. (The fountain is made of marble and 
rests by its own weight in the back garden. However, it is connected to mains water 
through pipes that run under the surface of the backyard and connect to the fountain 
by screw-in fittings on the fountain’s underside.) 
The transfer is fairly straightforward with Gideon being the transferor and Wednesday being 
the transferee.  


--- PAGE 2 ---
2 
 
However, just before signing the contract of sale, Wednesday learns of another interested 
buyer who is willing to offer the original asking price of $1,500,000.00. She is concerned that 
Gideon will make an agreement with this person after signing her agreement and 
surreptitiously transfer the property to that person before it can be transferred to her. 
Wednesday has received no indication from Gideon that he does not wish to proceed with the 
agreement with her but suspects he might just sign an agreement with her as ‘insurance’ in 
case the other agreement doesn’t go through. She instructs you lodge a caveat as soon as she 
lets you know she has signed the offer and acceptance. 
As it turns out, however, Wednesday’s suspicions were warranted. She has now learned that 
Gideon signed a contract to sell the property to the interested party after he signed the 
contract with her. What’s more, after peeking over the backyard fence (a task made easy by 
sitting on Lurch’s shoulders), Wednesday notes that the gargoyle fountain is missing. Further, 
from what she sees of (and through) the windows, the black velvet curtains are gone as is the 
gothic chandelier. 
Your task is to draft an offer and acceptance and transfer reflecting the above transaction as 
well as a caveat to protect Wednesday’s interest in the property. You will also be required to 
draft a default notice after settlement falls through demanding that Gideon fulfill his 
agreement with Wednesday and complete the sale within 14 days and, if he does not, 
Wednesday will either affirm the contract and seek specific performance of the contract or 
accept Gideon’s repudiation of the contract and terminate it and seek damages.  
You will need to make up things necessary to draw up a valid offer and acceptance, transfer, 
caveat, and default notice such as full names and addresses and title details to the property. 
Of course, do not make up details that will change the nature of the transaction (eg a different 
purchase price or conditions that are not contained in the above facts), only incidental matters 
that one would expect to see in these documents to make them complete and capable of being 
enforced and, where required to be lodged at Landgate, registrable. (You should use the 
REIWA standard form offer and acceptance available in the assignment instructions on 
Canvas and fill in the blanks, including adding any special conditions that you feel might be 
suitable. You should also use the transfer and caveat forms that are found in the assignment 
instructions on Canvas along with relevant Landgate links about completing these forms.) 
                                 
             9 Nightshade Street, Joondalup                           Lurch’s stoic presence ‘helps’ the negotiations along 
 
The Gargoyle Fountain (the picture below is from The Cement Barn – and, yes, it appears 
you can buy one): 


--- PAGE 3 ---
3 
 
 
 
